Brief documentation for the current name mangling scheme (#4286)
carbon-language/carbon-lang: toolchain/docs/lower.md

Lowering is done per `SemIR::InstBlock`. This minimizes changes to the
`IRBuilder` insertion point, something that is both expensive and potentially
fragile.

## Mangling

Part of lowering is choosing deterministically unique identifiers for each

> lowered entity to use in platform object files. Any feature of an entity (eg:
> the namespace it appears in, parameters for overloaded functions, etc) that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lowered entity to use in platform object files. Any feature of an entity (such as
the namespace it appears in, or parameters for overloaded functions) that
```

We're using [Google's developer style guide](https://developers.google.com/style) for documentation. One of the suggestions it makes is to avoid latin abbreviations, [particularly e.g. and i.e.](https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#eg). It also [discourages etc](https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#etc). The "such as ... or" phrasing here follows the first suggestion from the "etc" advice.

The comma is optional, but feels like it may help readability. You might also consider a slightly different phrasing that might not need a comma:

```suggestion
lowered entity to use in platform object files. Any feature of an entity (such as
parent namespaces or overloaded function parameters) that
```

Author: Ended up removing most of this and enumerating things more explicitly rather than "eg/such as".

Reviewer: Note this sentence is still here. Maybe a missed push?

would create a distinct entity must be included in some way in the generated
identifier.

> The current rudimentary name mangling scheme is as follows:

Reviewer: Is it worth noting the `Main.Run` -> `main` (instead of `_CRun.Main`) mangling?

Author: Yeah, I'll call that out separately.

> -   Start with `_C`

Reviewer: Had you considered a sequence-based ordering versus "start with" and "then"? e.g.:

```
1.`_C` prefixes all names.
2. The unqualified function name.
3. Scopes.
```

Author: Yeah, I've given that a go.

> -   Then the unqualified function name (function name mangling is the only thing

Reviewer: Would it be worth providing a couple examples for function and `impl` examples?

Author: Yep, added examples.

    implemented at the moment)

> -   `.` separated scopes (namespaces/classes), most nested first, outermost last

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `.` separated scopes (such as namespaces or classes), most nested first, outermost last
```

Per style, rather than [slashes for alternatives](https://developers.google.com/style/slashes#slashes-with-alternatives), how about "or"?

Note, I see this suggested edit overlaps with geoffromer's, but I thought it might be easier to understand this way.

> -   or, if the function is in an `impl`:

Reviewer: When you say "or" here, is there a way to restructure a little to make it clearer what this is an "or" with? Is it one bullet above, two, or all three?

>     -   the implementing type, per the scope mangling above

Reviewer: Should the `:` separator be mentioned?

> -   Start with `_C`
> 
> -   Then the unqualified function name (function name mangling is the only thing
>     implemented at the moment)
> 
> -   `.` separated scopes (namespaces/classes), most nested first, outermost last
> 
> -   or, if the function is in an `impl`:
> 
>     -   the implementing type, per the scope mangling above
> 
>     -   the interface type, per the scope mangling above

Reviewer 2: The vertical whitespace makes each of these a separate one-item list.

```suggestion
-   Start with `_C`.
-   Then the unqualified function name (function name mangling is the only thing
    implemented at the moment).
-   Then `.` separated scopes (namespaces/classes), most nested first, outermost last.
-   Or, if the function is in an `impl`:
    -   the implementing type, per the scope mangling above.
    -   the interface type, per the scope mangling above.
```

(I also suggested some minor copyedits while I was there)

Author: > The vertical whitespace makes each of these a separate one-item list.

Oh - I had looked for an example of sub lists, and used that as the basis for this - it was here: https://docs.carbon-lang.dev/toolchain/docs/parse.html#optional-modifiers-before-an-introducer where there are blank lines between the "steps" in this list. But perhaps that's intentionally different there?

Reviewer 2: I think it works better there because the list items are closer to paragraph length.

Reviewer: FWIW, I think there will eventually be a lot more entries here, and depending on how this grows, blank lines may be helpful. We do go both ways though, and noting the html link, I would expect the rendered md to look equivalent regardless of the source representation.

Lowering is done per `SemIR::InstBlock`. This minimizes changes to the
`IRBuilder` insertion point, something that is both expensive and potentially
fragile.

## Mangling

Part of lowering is choosing deterministically unique identifiers for each
lowered entity to use in platform object files. Any feature of an entity (eg:
the namespace it appears in, parameters for overloaded functions, etc) that
would create a distinct entity must be included in some way in the generated
identifier.

The current rudimentary name mangling scheme is as follows:

-   As a special case, `Main.Run` is emitted as `main`.

Otherwise the resulting name consists of:

> 1.  `_C`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  `_C`
```

I feel weird about this. While a period has a degree of consistency, lines 46 and 50 (for example) only put the character and don't have a period. I lean towards it reading better without it.

2.  The unqualified function name (function name mangling is the only thing

>     implemented at the moment)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    implemented at the moment).
```

3.  `.`
4.  If the function being mangled is a member of:
    -   an `impl`, then add:
        1.  The implementing type, per the scope mangling.
        2.  `:`
        3.  The interface type, per the scope mangling.
    -   a type or namespace, then add:

>         1.  the scope, per the scope mangling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        1.  The scope, per the scope mangling.
```

> Scope mangling:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The scope mangling scheme is as follows:
```

(For consistency with how the previous list is introduced)

1.  The unqualified name of the type or namespace.
2.  If the type or namespace is within another type or namespace:
    1.  `.`

>     2.  The enclosing scope per the scope mangling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2.  The enclosing scope, per the scope mangling.
```

(other similar phrases have the comma; while I think it's optional, should be consistent)

3.  `.`
4.  The package name.

### Examples

```carbon
package P1;
interface Interface {
  fn Op[self: Self]();
}
```

```carbon
namespace NameSpace;
class NameSpace.Implementation {
  // Mangled as:

>   // `_COp.Implementation.NameSpace.Main:Interface1.P1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // `_COp.Implementation.NameSpace.Main:Interface.P1`
```
